<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Farewell My Lovely</title>
    <meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/><link href="stylesheet.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><style type="text/css">
		@page { margin-bottom: 5.000000pt; margin-top: 5.000000pt; }</style></head>
  <body class="body">

<div class="bs1" id="115">
<span>10</span><p class="calibre2"/><p class="calibre2"/></div>

<div class="bs2" id="116">
<span>"Four minutes," the voice said. "Five, possibly six. They must have moved quick and quiet. He didn't even let out a yell."</span><p class="calibre2"><span>I opened my eyes and looked fuzzily at a cold star. I was lying on my back. I felt sick.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>The voice said: "It could have been a little longer. Maybe even eight minutes altogether. They must have been in the brush, right where the car stopped. The guy scared easily. They must have thrown a small light in his face and he passed out-just from panic. The pansy."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>There was silence. I got up on one knee. Pains shot from the back of my head clear to my ankles.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Then one of them got into the car," the voice said, "and waited for you to come back. The others hid again. They must have figured he would be afraid to come alone. Or something in his voice made them suspicious, when they talked to him on the phone."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I balanced myself woozily on the flat of my hands, listening.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Yeah, that was about how it was," the voice said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>It was my voice. I was talking to myself, coming out of it. I was trying to figure the thing out subconsciously.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Shut up, you dimwit," I said, and stopped talking to myself.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>Far off the purl of motors, nearer the chirp of crickets, the peculiar long drawn ee-ee-ee of tree frogs. I didn't think I was going to like those sounds any more.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I lifted a hand off the ground and tried to shake the sticky sage ooze off it, then rubbed it on the side of my coat. Nice work, for a hundred dollars. The hand jumped at the inside pocket of the overcoat. No manila envelope, naturally. The hand jumped inside my own suit coat. My wallet was still there. I wondered if my hundred was still in it. Probably not. Something felt heavy against my left ribs. The gun in the shoulder holster.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>That was a nice touch. They left me my gun. A nice touch of something or other-like closing a man's eyes after you knife him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I felt the back of my head. My hat was still on. I took it off, not without discomfort and felt the head underneath. Good old head, I'd had it a long time. It was a little soft now, a little pulpy, and more than a little tender. But a pretty light sapping at that. The hat had helped. I could still use the head. I could use it another year anyway.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I put my right hand back on the ground and took the left off and swivelled it around until I could see my watch. The illuminated dial showed 10.56, as nearly as I could focus on it.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>The call had come at 10.08. Marriott had talked maybe two minutes. Another four had got us out of the house. Time passes very slowly when you are actually doing something. I mean, you can go through a lot of movements in very few minutes. Is that what I mean? What the hell do I care what I mean? Okey, better men than me have meant less. Okey, what I mean is, that would be 10.15, say. The place was about twelve minutes away. 10.27. I get out, walk down in the hollow, spend at the most eight minutes fooling around and come on back up to get my head treated. 10.35. Give me a minute to fall down and hit the ground with my face. The reason I hit it with my face, I got my chin scraped. It hurts. It feels scraped. That way I know it's scraped. No, I can't see it. I don't have to see it. It's my chin and I know whether it's scraped or not. Maybe you want to make something of it. Okey, shut up and let me think. What with?…</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>The watch showed 10.56 p.m. That meant I had been out for twenty minutes.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>Twenty minutes' sleep. Just a nice doze. In that time I had muffed a job and lost eight thousand dollars. Well, why not? In twenty minutes you can sink a battleship, down three or four planes, hold a double execution. You can die, get married, get fired and find a new job, have a tooth pulled, have your tonsils out. In twenty minutes you can even get up in the morning. You can get a glass of water at a night club-maybe.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>Twenty minutes' sleep. That's a long time. Especially on a cold night, out in the open. I began to shiver.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I was still on my knees. The smell of the sage was beginning to bother me. The sticky ooze from which wild bees get their honey. Honey was sweet, much too sweet. My stomach took a whirl. I clamped my teeth tight and just managed to keep it down my throat. Cold sweat stood out in lumps on my forehead, but I shivered just the same. I got up on one foot, then on both feet, straightened up, wobbling a little. I felt like an amputated leg.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I turned slowly. The car was gone. The dirt road stretched empty, back up the shallow hill towards the paved street, the end of Camino de la Costa. To the left the barrier of white-painted four-by-fours stood out against the darkness. Beyond the low wall of brush the pale glow in the sky would be the lights of Bay City. And over farther to the right and near by were the lights of the Belvedere Club.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I went over where the car had stood and got a fountain pen flash unclipped from my pocket and poked the little light down at the ground. The soil was red loam, very hard in dry weather, but the weather was not bone dry. There was a little fog in the air, and enough of the moisture had settled on the surface of the ground to show where the car had stood. I could see, very faint, the tread marks of the heavy ten-ply Vogue tires. I put the light on them and bent over and the pain made my head dizzy. I started to follow the tracks. They went straight ahead for a dozen feet, then swung over to the left. They didn't turn, They went towards the gap at the left hand end of the white barricade. Then I lost them.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I went over to the barricade and shone the little light on the brush. Fresh-broken twigs. I went through the gap, on down the curving road. The ground was still softer here. More marks of the heavy tires. I went on down, rounded the curve and was at the edge of the hollow closed in by brush.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>It was there all right, the chromium and glossy paint shining a little even in the dark, and the red reflector glass of the tail-lights shining back at the pencil flash. It was there, silent, lightless, all the doors shut. I went towards it slowly, gritting my teeth at every step. I opened one of the rear doors and put the beam of the flash inside. Empty. The front was empty too. The ignition was off. The key hung in the lock on a thin chain. No torn upholstery, no scarred glass, no blood, no bodies. Everything neat and orderly. I shut the doors and circled the car slowly, looking for a sign and not finding any.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>A sound froze me.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>A motor throbbed above the rim of the brush. I didn't jump more than a foot. The flash in my hand went out. A gun slid into my hand all by itself. Then headlight beams tilted up towards the sky, then tilted down again. The motor sounded like a small car. It had that contented sound that comes with moisture in the air.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>The lights tilted down still more and got brighter. A car was coming down the curve of the dirt road. It came two-thirds of the way and then stopped. A spotlight clicked on and swung out to the side, held there for a long moment, went out again. The car came on down the hill. I slipped the gun out of my pocket and crouched behind the motor of Marriott's car.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>A small coupe of no particular shape or color slid into the hollow and turned so that its headlights raked the sedan from one end to the other. I got my head down in a hurry. The lights swept above me like a sword. The coupe stopped. The motor died. The headlights died. Silence. Then a door opened and a light foot touched the ground. More silence. Even the crickets were silent. Then a beam of light cut the darkness low down, parallel to the ground and only a few inches above it. The beam swept, and there was no way I could get my ankles out of it quickly enough. The beam stopped on my feet. Silence. The beam came up and raked the top of the hood again.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>Then a laugh. It was a girl's laugh. Strained, taut as a mandolin wire. A strange sound in that place. The white beam shot under the car again and settled on my feet.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>The voice said, not quite shrilly: "All right, you. Come out of there with your hands up and very damned empty. You're covered."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I didn't move.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>The light wavered a little, as though the hand that held it wavered. It swept slowly along the hood once more. The voice stabbed at me again.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Listen, stranger. I'm holding a ten shot automatic. I can shoot straight. Both your feet are vulnerable. What do you bid?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Put it up-or I'll blow it out of your hand!" I snarled. My voice sounded like somebody tearing slats off a chicken coop.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Oh-a hardboiled gentleman." There was a quaver in the voice, a nice little quaver. Then it hardened again. "Coming out? I'll count three. Look at the odds I'm giving you-twelve fat cylinders, maybe sixteen. But your feet will hurt. And ankle bones take years and years to get well and sometimes they never do really-"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I straightened up slowly and looked into the beam of the flashlight.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"I talk too much when I'm scared too," I said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Don't-don't move another inch! Who are you?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I moved around the front of the car towards her. When I was six feet from the slim dark figure behind the flash I stopped. The flash glared at me steadily.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"You stay right there," the girl snapped angrily, after I had stopped. "Who are you?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Let's see your gun."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>She held it forward into the light. It was pointed at my stomach. It was a little gun, it looked like a small Colt vest pocket automatic.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Oh, that," I said. "That toy. It doesn't either hold ten shots. It holds six. It's just a little gun, a butterfly gun. They shoot butterflies with them. Shame on you for telling a deliberate lie like that."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Are you crazy?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Me? I've been sapped by a holdup man. I might be a little goofy."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Is that-is that your car?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Who are you?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"What were you looking at back there with your spotlight?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"I get it. You ask the answers. He-man stuff. I was looking at a man."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Does he have blond hair in waves?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Not now," she said quietly. "He might have had-once."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>That jarred me. Somehow I hadn't expected it. "I didn't see him," I said lamely. "I was following the tire marks with a flashlight down the hill. Is he badly hurt?" I went another step towards her. The little gun jumped at me and the flash held steady.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Take it easy," she said quietly. "Very easy. Your friend is dead."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I didn't say anything for a moment. Then I said: "All right, let's go look at him."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Let's stand right here and not move and you tell me who you are and what happened." The voice was crisp. It was not afraid. It meant what it said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Marlowe. Philip Marlowe. An investigator. Private."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"That's who you are-if it's true. Prove it."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"I'm going to take my wallet out."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"I don't think so. Just leave your hands where they happen to be. We'll skip the proof for the time being. What's your story?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"This man may not be dead."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"He's dead all right. With his brains on his face. The story, mister. Make it fast."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"As I said-he may not be dead. We'll go look at him." I moved one foot forward.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Move and I'll drill you!" she snapped.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I moved the other foot forward. The flash jumped about a little. I think she took a step back.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"You take some awful chances, mister," she said quietly. "All right, go on ahead and I'll follow. You look like a sick man. If it hadn't been for that-"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"You'd have shot me. I've been sapped. It always makes me a little dark under the eyes."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"A nice sense of humor-like a morgue attendant," she almost wailed.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I turned away from the light and immediately it shone on the ground in front of me. I walked past the little coup, an ordinary little car, clean and shiny under the misty starlight. I went on, up the dirt road, around the curve. The steps were close behind me and the flashlight guided me. There was no sound anywhere now except our steps and the girl's breathing. I didn't hear mine.</span></p></div>

</body>
</html>
