<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Farewell My Lovely</title>
    <meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/><link href="stylesheet.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><style type="text/css">
		@page { margin-bottom: 5.000000pt; margin-top: 5.000000pt; }</style></head>
  <body class="body">

<div class="bs1" id="125">
<span>15</span><p class="calibre2"/><p class="calibre2"/></div>

<div class="bs2" id="126">
<span>A woman's voice answered, a dry, husky-sounding foreign voice: "'Allo."</span><p class="calibre2"><span>"May I talk to Mr. Amthor?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Ah no. I regret. I am ver-ry sor-ry. Amthor never speaks upon the telephone. I am hees secretary. Weel I take the message?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"What's the address out there? I want to see him."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Ah, you weesh to consult Amthor professionally? He weel be ver-ry pleased. But he ees ver-ry beesy. When you weesh to see him?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Right away. Sometime today."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Ah," the voice regretted, "that cannot be. The next week per'aps. I weel look at the book."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Look," I said, "never mind the book You 'ave the pencil?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"But certainly I 'ave the pencil. I-"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Take this down. My name is Philip Marlowe. My address is 615 Cahuenga Building, Hollywood. That's on Hollywood Boulevard near Ivar. My phone number is Glenview 7537." I spelled the hard ones and waited.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Yes, Meester Marlowe. I 'ave that."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"I want to see Mr. Amthor about a man named Marriott." I spelled that too. "it is very urgent. it is a matter of life and death. I want to see him fast. F-a-s-t-fast. Sudden, in other words. Am I clear?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"You talk ver-ry strange," the foreign voice said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"No." I took hold of the phone standard and shook it. "I feel fine. I always talk like that. This is a very queer business. Mr. Amthor will positively want to see me. I'm a private detective. But I don't want to go to the police until I've seen him."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Ah," the voice got as cool as a cafeteria dinner. "You are of the police, no."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Listen," I said. "I am of the police, no. I am a private detective. Confidential. But it is very urgent just the same. You call me back, no? You 'ave the telephone number, yes?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Si. I 'ave the telephone number. Meester Marriott-he ees sick."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Well, he's not up and around," I said. "So you know him?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"But no. You say a matter of life and death. Amthor he cure many people-"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"This is one time he flops," I said. "I'll be waiting for a call."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I hung up and lunged for the office bottle. I felt as if I had been through a meat grinder. Ten minutes passed. The phone rang. The voice said:</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Amthor he weel see you at six o'clock."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"That's fine. What's the address?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"He weel send a car."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"I have a car of my own. Just give me-"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"He weel send a car," the voice said coldly, and the phone clicked in my ear.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I looked at my watch once more. It was more than time for lunch. My stomach burned from the last drink. I wasn't hungry. I lit a cigarette. It tasted like a plumber's handkerchief. I nodded across the office at Mr. Rembrandt, then I reached for my hat and went out. I was halfway to the elevator before the thought hit me. It hit me without any reason or sense, like a dropped brick. I stopped and leaned against the marbled wall and pushed my hat around on my head and suddenly I laughed.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>A girl passing me on the way from the elevators back to her work turned and gave me one of those looks which are supposed to make your spine feel like a run in a stocking. I waved my hand at her and went back to my office and grabbed the phone. I called up a man I knew who worked on the Lot Books of a title company.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Can you find a property by the address alone?" I asked him.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Sure. We have a cross index. What is it?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"1644 West 54th Place. I'd like to know a little something about the condition of the title."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"I'd better call you back. What's that number?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>He called back in about three minutes.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Get your pencil out," he said. "It's Lot 8 of Block 11 of Caraday's Addition to the Maplewood Tract Number 4. The owner of record, subject to certain things, is Jessie Pierce Florian, widow."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Yeah. What things?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Second half taxes, two ten-year street improvement bonds, one storm drain assessment bond also ten year, none of these delinquents, also a first trust deed of $2600."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"You mean one of those things where they can sell you out on ten minutes' notice?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Not quite that quick, but a lot quicker than a mortgage. There's nothing unusual about it except the amount. It's high for that neighborhood, unless it's a new house."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"It's a very old house and in bad repair," I said. "I'd say fifteen hundred would buy the place."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Then it's distinctly unusual, because the refinancing was done only four years ago."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Okey, who holds it? Some investment company?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"No. An individual. Man named Lindsay Marriott, a single man. Okey?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I forget what I said to him or what thanks I made. They probably sounded like words. I sat there, just staring at the wall.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>My stomach suddenly felt fine. I was hungry. I went down to the Mansion House Coffee Shop and ate lunch and got my car out of the parking lot next to my building.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I drove south and east, towards West 54th Place. I didn't carry any liquor with me this time.</span></p></div>

</body>
</html>
