<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Farewell My Lovely</title>
    <meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/><link href="stylesheet.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><style type="text/css">
		@page { margin-bottom: 5.000000pt; margin-top: 5.000000pt; }</style></head>
  <body class="body">

<div class="bs1" id="139">
<span>22</span><p class="calibre2"/><p class="calibre2"/></div>

<div class="bs2" id="140">
<span>I kicked my stool back and stood up and jerked the gun out of the holster under my arm. But it was no good. My coat was buttoned and I was too slow. I'd have been too slow anyway, if it came to shooting anybody.</span><p class="calibre2"><span>There was a soundless rush of air and an earthy smell. In the complete darkness the Indian hit me from behind and pinned my arms to my sides. He started to lift me. I could have got the gun out still and fanned the room with blind shots, but I was a long way from friends. It didn't seem as if there was any point in it.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I let go of the gun and took hold of his wrists. They were greasy and hard to hold. The Indian breathed gutturally and set me down with a jar that lifted the top of my head. He had my wrists now, instead of me having his. He twisted them behind me fast and a knee like a corner stone went into my back. He bent me. I can be bent. I'm not the City Hall. He bent me.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I tried to yell, for no reason at all. Breath panted in my throat and couldn't get out. The Indian threw me sideways and got a body scissors on me as I fell. He had me in a barrel. His hands went to my neck. Sometimes I wake up in the night. I feel them there and I smell the smell of him. I feel the breath fighting and losing and the greasy fingers digging in. Then I get up and take a drink and turn the radio on.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I was just about gone when the light flared on again, blood red, on account of the blood in my eyeballs and at the back of them. A face floated around and a hand pawed me delicately, but the other hands stayed on my throat.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>A voice said softly, "Let him breathe-a little."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>The fingers slackened. I wrenched loose from them. Something that glinted hit me on the side of the jaw.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>The voice said softly: "Get him on his feet."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>The Indian got me on my feet. He pulled me back against the wall, holding me by both twisted wrists.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Amateur," the voice said softly and the shiny thing that was as hard and bitter as death hit me again, across the face. Something warm trickled. I licked at it and tasted iron and salt.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>A hand explored my wallet. A hand explored all my pockets. The cigarette in tissue paper came out and was unwrapped. It went somewhere in the haze that was in front of me.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"There were three cigarettes?" the voice said gently, and the shining thing hit my jaw again.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Three," I gulped.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Just where did you say the others were?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"In my desk-at the office."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>The shiny thing hit me again. "You are probably lying- but I can find out." Keys shone with funny little red lights in front of me. The voice said: "Choke him a little more."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>The iron fingers went into my throat. I was strained back against him, against the smell of him and the hard muscles of his stomach. I reached up and took one of his fingers and tried to twist it.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>The voice said softly: "Amazing. He's learning."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>The glinting thing swayed through the air again. It smacked my jaw, the thing that had once been my jaw.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Let him go. He's tame," the voice said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>The heavy strong arms dropped away and I swayed forward and took a step and steadied myself. Amthor stood smiling very slightly, almost dreamily in front of me. He held my gun in his delicate, lovely hand. He held it pointed at my chest.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"I could teach you," he said in his soft voice. "But to what purpose? A dirty little man in a dirty little world. One spot of brightness on you and you would still be that. Is it not so?" He smiled, so beautifully.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I swung at his smile with everything I had left.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>It wasn't so bad considering. He reeled and blood came out of both his nostrils. Then he caught himself and straightened up and lifted the gun again.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Sit down, my child," he said softly. "I have visitors coming. I am so glad you hit me. It helps a great deal."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I felt for the white stool and sat down and put my head down on the white table beside the milky globe which was now shining again softly. I stared at it sideways, my face on the table. The light fascinated me. Nice light, nice soft light.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>Behind me and around me there was nothing but silence. I think I went to sleep, just like that, with a bloody face on the table, and a thin beautiful devil with my gun in his hand watching me and smiling.</span></p></div>

</body>
</html>
