<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Farewell My Lovely</title>
    <meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/><link href="stylesheet.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><style type="text/css">
		@page { margin-bottom: 5.000000pt; margin-top: 5.000000pt; }</style></head>
  <body class="body">

<div class="bs1" id="143">
<span>24</span><p class="calibre2"/><p class="calibre2"/></div>

<div class="bs2" id="144">
<span>At the bottom of the shaft we got out and walked along the narrow hallway and out of the black door. It was crisp clear air outside, high enough to be above the drift of foggy spray from the ocean. I breathed deeply.</span><p class="calibre2"><span>The big man still had hold of my arm. There was a car standing there, a plain dark sedan, with private plates.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>The big man opened the front door and complained: "It ain't really up to your class, pally. But a little air will set you up fine. Would that be all right with you? We wouldn't want to do anything that you wouldn't like us to do, pally."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Where's the Indian?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>He shook his head a little and pushed me into the car. I got into the right side of the front seat. "Oh, yeah, the Indian," he said. "You got to shoot him with a bow and arrow. That's the law. We got him in the back of the car."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I looked in the back of the car. It was empty.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Hell, he ain't there," the big one said. "Somebody must of glommed him off. You can't leave nothing in a unlocked car any more."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Hurry up," the man with the mustache said, and got into the back seat. Hemingway went around and pushed his hard stomach behind the wheel. He started the car. We turned and drifted off down the driveway lined with wild geraniums. A cold wind lifted off the sea. The stars were too far off. They said nothing.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>We reached the bottom of the drive and turned out onto the concrete mountain road and drifted without haste along that.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"How come you don't have a car with you, pally?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Amthor sent for me."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Why would that be, pally?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"It must have been he wanted to see me."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"This guy is good," Hemingway said. "He figures things out." He spit out of the side of the car and made a turn nicely and let the car ride its motor down the hill. "He says you called him up on the phone and tried to put the bite on him. So he figures he better have a looksee what kind of guy he is doing business with-if he is doing business. So he sends his own car."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"On account of he knows he is going to call some cops he knows and I won't need mine to get home with," I said. "Okey, Hemingway."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Yeah, that again. Okey. Well he has a dictaphone under his table and his secretary takes it all down and when we come she reads it back to Mister Blane here."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I turned and looked at Mister Blane. He was smoking a cigar, peacefully, as though he had his slippers on. He didn't look at me.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Like hell she did," I said. "More likely a stock bunch of notes they had all fixed up for a case like that."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Maybe you would like to tell us why you wanted to see this guy," Hemingway suggested politely.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"You mean while I still have part of my face?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Aw, we ain't those kind of boys at all," he said, with a large gesture.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"You know Amthor pretty well, don't you, Hemingway?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Mr. Blane kind of knows him. Me, I just do what the orders is."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Who the hell is Mister Blane?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"That's the gentleman in the back seat."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"And besides being in the back seat who the hell is he?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Why, Jesus, everybody knows Mr. Blane."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"All right," I said, suddenly feeling very weary.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>There was a little more silence, more curves, more winding ribbons of concrete, more darkness, and more pain.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>The big man said: "Now that we are all between pals and no ladies present we really don't give so much time to why you went back up there, but this Hemingway stuff is what really has me down."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"A gag," I said. "An old, old gag."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Who is this Hemingway person at all?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"A guy that keeps saying the same thing over and over until you begin to believe it must be good."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"That must take a hell of a long time," the big man said. "For a private dick you certainly have a wandering kind of mind. Are you still wearing your own teeth?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Yeah, with a few plugs in them."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Well, you certainly have been lucky, pally."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>The man in the back seat said: "This is all right. Turn right at the next."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Check."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>Hemingway swung the sedan into a narrow dirt road that edged along the flank of a mountain. We drove along that about a mile. The smell of the sage became overpowering.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Here," the man in the back seat said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>Hemingway stopped the car and set the brake. He leaned across me and opened the door.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Well, it's nice to have met you, pally. But don't come back. Anyways not on business. Out."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"I walk home from here?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>The man in the back seat said: "Hurry up."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Yeah, you walk home from here, pally. Will that be all right with you?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Sure, it will give me time to think a few things out. For instance you boys are not L.A. cops. But one of you is a cop, maybe both of you. I'd say you are Bay City cops. I'm wondering why you were out of your territory."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Ain't that going to be kind of hard to prove, pally?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Goodnight, Hemingway."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>He didn't answer. Neither of them spoke. I started to get out of the car and put my foot on the running board and leaned forward, still a little dizzy.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>The man in the back seat made a sudden flashing movement that I sensed rather than saw. A pool of darkness opened at my feet and was far, far deeper than the blackest night.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I dived into it. It had no bottom.</span></p></div>

</body>
</html>
