<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Farewell My Lovely</title>
    <meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/><link href="stylesheet.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><style type="text/css">
		@page { margin-bottom: 5.000000pt; margin-top: 5.000000pt; }</style></head>
  <body class="body">

<div class="bs1" id="163">
<span>34</span><p class="calibre2"/><p class="calibre2"/></div>

<div class="bs2" id="164">
<span>I lay on my back on a bed in a waterfront hotel and waited for it to get dark. It was a small front room with a hard bed and a mattress slightly thicker than the cotton blanket that covered it. A spring underneath me was broken and stuck into the left side of my back. I lay there and let it prod me.</span><p class="calibre2"><span>The reflection of a red neon light glared on the ceiling. When it made the whole room red it would be dark enough to go out. Outside cars honked along the alley they called the Speedway. Feet slithered on the sidewalks below my window. There was a murmur and mutter of coming and going in the air. The air that seeped in through the rusted screens smelled of stale frying fat. Far off a voice of the kind that could be heard far off was shouting: "Get hungry, foks. Get hungry. Nice hot doggies here. Get hungry."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>It got darker. I thought; and thought in my mind moved with a kind of sluggish stealthiness, as if it was being watched by bitter and sadistic eyes. I thought of dead eyes looking at a moonless sky, with black blood at the corners of the mouths beneath them. I thought of nasty old women beaten to death against the posts of their dirty beds. I thought of a man with bright blond hair who was afraid and didn't quite know what he was afraid of, who was sensitive enough to know that something was wrong, and too vain or too dull to guess what it was that was wrong. I thought of beautiful rich women who could be had. I thought of nice slim curious girls who lived alone and could be had too, in a different way. I thought of cops, tough cops that could be greased and yet were not by any means all bad, like Hemingway. Fat prosperous cops with Chamber of Commerce voices, like Chief Wax. Slim, smart and deadly cops like Randall, who for all their smartness and deadliness were not free to do a clean job in a clean way. I thought of sour old goats like Nulty who had given up trying. I though of Indians and psychics and dope doctors.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I thought of lots of things. It got darker. The glare of the red neon sign spread farther and farther across the ceiling. I sat up on the bed and put my feet on the floor and rubbed the back of my neck.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I got up on my feet and went over to the bowl in the corner and threw cold water on my face. After a little while I felt a little better, but very little. I needed a drink, I needed a lot of life insurance, I needed a vacation, I needed a home in the country. What I had was a coat, a hat and a gun. I put them on and went out of the room.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>There was no elevator. The hallways smelled and the stairs had grimed rails. I went down them, threw the key on the desk and said I was through. A clerk with a wart on his left eyelid nodded and a Mexican bellhop in a frayed uniform coat came forward from behind the dustiest rubber plant in California to take my bags. I didn't have any bags, so being a Mexican, he opened the door for me and smiled politely just the same.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>Outside the narrow street fumed, the sidewalks swarmed with fat stomachs. Across the street a bingo parlor was going full blast and beside it a couple of sailors with girls were coming out of a photographer's shop where they had probably been having their photos taken riding on camels. The voice of the hot dog merchant split the dusk like an axe. A big blue bus blared down the street to the little circle where the street car used to turn on a turntable. I walked that way.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>After a while there was a faint smell of ocean. Not very much, but as if they had kept this much just to remind people this had once been a clean open beach where the waves came in and creamed and the wind blew and you could smell something besides hot fat and cold sweat.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>The little sidewalk car came trundling along the wide concrete walk. I got on it and rode to the end of the line and got off and sat on a bench where it was quiet and cold and there was a big brown heap of kelp almost at my feet. Out to sea they had turned the lights on in the gambling boats. I got back on the sidewalk car the next time it came and rode back almost to where I had left the hotel. If anybody was tailing me, he was doing it without moving. I didn't think there was. In that clean little city there wouldn't be enough crime for the dicks to be very good shadows.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>The black piers glittered their length and then disappeared into the dark background of night and water. You could still smell hot fat, but you could smell the ocean too. The hot dog man droned on:</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Get hungry, folks, get hungry. Nice hot doggies. Get hungry."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I spotted him in a white barbecue stand tickling wienies with a long fork. He was doing a good business even that early in the year. I had to wait some time to get him alone.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"What's the name of the one farthest out?" I asked, pointing with my nose.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span><i class="calibre3">"Montecito."</i> He gave me the level steady look.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Could a guy with reasonable dough have himself a time there?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"What kind of a time?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I laughed, sneeringly, very tough.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Hot doggies," he chanted. "Nice hot doggies, folks." He dropped his voice. "Women?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Nix. I was figuring on a room with a nice sea breeze and good food and nobody to bother me. Kind of vacation."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>He moved away. "I can't hear a word you say," he said, and then went into his chant.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>He did some more business. I didn't know why I bothered with him. He just had that kind of face. A young couple in shorts came up and bought hot dogs and strolled away with the boy's arm around the girl's brassiere and each eating the other's hot dog.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>The man slid a yard towards me and eyed me over. "Right now I should be whistling Roses of Picardy," he said, and paused. "That would cost you," he said.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"How much?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Fifty. Not less. Unless they want you for something."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"This used to be a good town," I said. "A cool-off town."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"Thought it still was," he drawled. "But why ask me?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"I haven't an idea," I said. I threw a dollar bill on his counter. "Put it in the baby's bank," I said. "Or whistle Roses of Picardy."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>He snapped the bill, folded it longways, folded it across and folded it again. He laid it on the counter and tucked his middle finger behind his thumb and snapped. The folded-bill hit me lightly in the chest and fell noiselessly to the ground. I bent and picked it up and turned quickly. But nobody was behind me that looked like a dick.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I leaned against the counter and laid the dollar bill on it again. "People don't throw money at me," I said. "They hand it to me. Do you mind?"</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>He took the bill, unfolded it, spread it out and wiped it off with his apron. He punched his cash-register and dropped the bill into the drawer.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"They say money don't stink," he said. "I sometimes wonder."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I didn't say anything. Some more customers did business with him and went away. The night was cooling fast.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>"I wouldn't try the _Royal Crown_," the man said. "That's for good little squirrels, that stick to their nuts. You look like dick to me, but that's your angle. I hope you swim good."</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I left him, wondering why I had gone to him in the first place. Play the hunch. Play the hunch and get stung. In a little while you wake up with your mouth full of hunches. You can't order a cup of coffee without shutting your eyes and stabbing the menu. Play the hunch.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I walked around and tried to see if anybody walked behind me in any particular way. Then I sought out a restaurant that didn't smell of frying grease and found one with a purple neon sign and a cocktail bar behind a reed curtain. A male cutie with henna'd hair drooped at a bungalow grand piano and tickled the keys lasciviously and sang Stairway to the Stars in a voice with half the steps missing.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>I gobbled a dry martini and hurried back through the reed curtain to the dining room.</span></p><p class="calibre2"><span>The eighty-five cent dinner tasted like a discarded mail bag and was served to me by a waiter who looked as if he would slug me for a quarter, cut my throat for six bits, and bury me at sea in a barrel of concrete for a dollar and a half, plus sales tax.</span></p></div>

</body>
</html>
